#summary Jumping into things

= Introduction =

simpleomegle is a small python API to interact with the text side of the chat site Omegle.com.  It is a derivative of similar projects hosted on this site.

Without further ado, lets's jump into code.

== Make a Chat ==
The first task when writing code to interact with omegle is making a chat:
<code language="python>
import Omegle
my_chat = Omegle.OmegleChat()</code>
We now have an object representing an Omegle conversation.  This is analogous to loading omegle.com, but not starting a chat.

Before we can do that, though, we're going to have to set up handlers to handle events.
== Event Handlers ==
<code language="python">class MyEventHandler(Omegle.EventHandler):
    """Event handler for the chat"""
    def connected(self, chat, var):
        """Fire when the stranger connects."""
        print "Stranger Connected"
        #Say hello to him.
        chat.say("Hello, Stranger!")
        #Hang up
        chat.disconnect()</code>
Here we've made a very small event handling class.  It only takes care of one event: connected.  This event fires when a stranger connects.  There are, of course, other [events], a partial list of which can be found on the wiki page [Events].

Every handler takes two arguments:<pre>chat: the instance of Omegle.OmegleChat that fired the event
var: a list of data relevant to the event</pre>
Nearly always `var` will have 0 or 1 elements.

`print "Stranger Connected"` is debugging output for our own purposes.  Printing to stdout doesn't touch Omegle.

`chat.say("Hello, Stranger!")` sends a message, `Hello, Stranger!` to the chat that fired the event.

All that's left is to start the chat.
== Start the Chat ==
<code language="python">
my_chat.connect_events(MyEventHandler())
my_chat.connect()</code>This connects an instance of the event handler to the chat and starts the chat.

== All Together ==
When combined, our Hello, World! program is as follows:
<code language="python">
class MyEventHandler(Omegle.EventHandler):
    """Handle chat events"""
    
    def __init__(self, finished_event):
        """Initialize event handler.
        
        @param finished_event: Signals main thread the chat has finished
        @type finished_event: threading.Event
        """
        self.finished_event = finished_event
    
    def connected(self, chat, var):
        """Stranger connected."""
        print "Stranger connected."
        #Say hello to him
        chat.say("Hello, World!")
        #Hang up
        chat.disconnect()
        #Signal main thread we're done
        self.finished_event.set()
        
#Used to wait for chat to finish
finished_event = threading.Event()
#Create a new chat
my_chat = Omegle.OmegleChat()
#Connect handlers to the chat
my_chat.connect_events(MyEventHandler(finished_event))
#Connect the chat to omegle
my_chat.connect()
#Wait for the chat to finish
finished_event.wait()</code>
Note we've added the use of `threading.Event` to wait for the chat to finish.